section-alert: Create new component (#1167)
steelthreads/agds-next: packages/react/src/section-alert/docs/overview.mdx

---
title: Section alert

> description: Section alerts are non-disruptive notifications that provide information and messages about a state change in a section of a page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Section alerts are non-disruptive notifications that provide Success, Error and Warning messages about a state change in a section of a page.
```

group: Content
storybookPath: /story/Content-SectionAlert--basic

> relatedComponents: ['page-alert']

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
relatedComponents: ['page-alert', 'global-alert']
```

Reviewer 2: Would you also be able to update page-alert and global-alert so they backlink to this component?

> relatedComponents: ['page-alert']

Reviewer 2: Would you also be able to update page-alert and global-alert so they backlink to this component?

---

Section alerts appear inside of the main content area of the page and are used to alert users to a particular section of the screen. They should not be confused with Callouts.

```jsx live
<SectionAlert title="Your changes have been saved" tone="success" />
```

<DoHeading />

- use to notify users about a change in state in a section of a
  page

> - use to communicate error or success messages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- use to communicate error, warning or success messages
```

> - allow it to be dismissed if it is not critical.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- allow users to dismiss alerts that are not critical
```

> - place above interactive components or at the top of page sections to show information or status

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- place above interactive components or at the top of page sections 
```

- use constructive no-blame language, avoid vague descriptions and always provide a solution
- keep it short - content should be understood at a glance

> - use the appropriate status of success, info, error or warning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- use the appropriate status and tone of success, error or warning.
```

<DontHeading />

- use to communicate messages which relate to the entire page - use [Page alert](/components/page-alert) instead
- use to communicate messages which relate to the entire application - use [Global alert](/components/global-alert) instead
- use to contain text in articles or other blocks of text content - use [Callout](/components/callout) instead
- hide the message automatically. Let the user dismiss the message instead.

> - use for form errors - use [Page alert](/components/page-alert) instead

Reviewer: I'm not sure about this point @nathsimpson. I think there is a chance that section alert will be used for micro-form validation in multi-action pages

- repeat the title in the description
- use the description if the title is enough to convey the message

> - include a close button for error messages which block further progress

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- include a close button for error messages.
```

## Tones

Section alert can be used to communicate different types of messages. Choosing a tone for a Section alert allows the user to understand the importance and severity of the message at a glance.

> The four supported tones are success, error and warning.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The four supported tones are success, error, warning and info.
```

Reviewer 2: Need docs for info variant here.

> The three supported tones are success, error and warning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The three supported tones are `success`, `error` and `warning`.
```

### Success

> The success section alert is used for notifying the user that a task is fully completed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The success section alert (green) is used for notifying the user that a task is fully completed.
```

```jsx live
<SectionAlert title="Your changes have been saved" tone="success" />
```

### Error

> The error section alert should be used when something destructive or critical has happened.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The error section alert (red) should be used when something destructive or critical has happened.
```

```jsx live
<SectionAlert title="There was an error saving your changes" tone="error" />
```

### Warning

> Use warning section alerts to tell the user something urgent. Only use an alert if the information will help the user avoid a problem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use warning section alerts (orange) to tell the user something urgent. Only use an alert if the information will help the user avoid a problem.
```
